Flex is an SDK used to build Flash Applications. It does not have a file type nor file extension associated with it directly.
The code files that flex compiler processes are usually ActionScript (as) or MXML (mxml).
The compiled results are either flex components (.swc) or Flash Movies (.swf)


 http:// help.adobe.com
-Developing application in MXML
MXML is an XML language that you use to lay out user interface components for applications built in Abobe Flex. You also use
mxml to declare and define nonvisual aspects of an application, such as server side data source and data bindings between user
interface components and server-side data sources.
Flex development uses 2 languages MXML and actionscript. MXML is an XML markup language to layout user interface components,
declare and define nonvisual aspects of an application. MXML is much more structured and has a much richer tag set.
It is good practice to include encoding information that specifies how the mxml file is encoded. On North America
OS's ISO-8859-1 is the dominant encoding format. You can use UTF-8 encoding format to ensure maximum platform compatibility.
The encoding tag specifies the encoding used.
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
In an XML document, tags are associated with a namespace. XML namespaces let you refer to more than set of XML tags in the
same document. In flex you typically define 3 Universal Resource Identifiers (URI) namespaces
xmlns:fx="http://ns.adobe.com/mxml/2009"   - This is the namespace of the top level actionscript elements, like Object, Number, 
Boolean, Array, etc. It also includes the tags built into the MXML compiler. 
xmlns:mx="library://ns.adobe.com/flex/mx   - This is the namespace for the MX component set.
xmlns:s="library://ns.adobe.com/flex/spark - This is the namespace for the Spark component set.  
Adobe implemented Flex as an ActionScript class library. The class library contains components (container and controls),
manager classes, data-services classes, and other classes.

MXML tags correspond to ActionScript classes or properties of classes. Flex parses MXMXL tags and compiles a SWF file that 
contains the corresponding ActionScript objects. An MXML tag that corresponds to an AcxtionScript class uses the same naming 
conventions as the ActionScript class. Class names begin with a capital letter. Every MXML tag attribute corresponds to a 
property of the actionScript object, a style applied to the object, or an event listener for the object.
Typically an MXML application contains the <s:Application> tag. A common coding practice is to divide your flex application 
into functional units or modules.
In Flex model view design pattern, user interface components represent the view. The MXML language supports two types of user 
interface components; controls and containers. Control are form elements, like buttons, text fields, and containers are 
rectangular regions of the screen. 
Flex applications are driven by runtime events and event listeners, which consists of code for handling runtime events.
Flex used curly braces ({}) to bind properties of components to each other. 
RPC remote procedure calls services let your application interact with remote servers to provide data to your applications. or 
for your application to send data to a server. Flex support SOAP simple Object Access Protocol, AMF, or http using xml. The MXML
components that provide data access are called RPC components. This include WebService for SOAP, HTTPService for HTTP urls and
RemoteObject for Java objects using AMF protocol. RPC components are defined using the non-visual component tag <fx:Decalarations> 
A data model is an actionscript that provides properties for storing data. It also used the non-visual component 
tag <fx:Decalarations>.
MXML includes a set of standard validator components, like PhoneNumberValidator class and EmailValidator class. 
Formatter components are actionscript components that perform a one-way conversion of raw data to a formatted string. This happens 
right before data is displayed in a text field. Ex ZipCodeFormatter. 
The tag <fx:Style) is used to declare the use of CSS standard cascading style sheets. 
Skinning is the process of changing the appearance of a component by modifying or replacing its visual elements. 
An effect is a change to a component that occurs over a period of time, like fading and resizing.  

-MXML syntax
Most MXML tags correspond to actionscript 3.0 classes or properties of classes. Flex parses MXML tags and compiles a SWF file
that contains the corresponding actionscript objects. Actionscript 3.0 uses syntax based on the ECMAScript edition 4 draft
language specification.
MXML filenames must adhere to the following naming conventions:
Filenames must be a valid actionscript identifiers and must start with a letter or underscore _
Filenames can not be the same name as actionscript classes, component id values, or the word application.
Filenames must end with an extension markup
In MXML a component property uses the same naming conventions as the corresponding actionscript property. A property begins
with a lowercase letter and capital letters separate words. 
You can set most components properties as tag attributes. ex Label width or text. You can also set all components properties at 
child tags.
Usually you specify the value of a scalar property as a property of a component tag. ex <s:Label text="Holler"/>
The default_property sets the default property . For spark list, the default property is the dataProvider property. 
Curly brackets {} mean data binding operation
Use a forward slash / to separate files and paths
New lines can be used by including {'\n'} or #13 on the property value ex text="Z ball{'\n'}" or text="boat&#13race". Additionally
you can create an actionscript string variable to insert a new line character. 
The [Bindable] metadata tag indicates the variable property can be used as the source of a databind  expression.
An array can be populated with a list of items, and array of objects. 
A vector is an array whose elements all have the same data type. The data type is also known as vector base type. The vase class
can be any class, including built in classes and custom classes. The base type is specified when declaring the vector. 
ex <fx:Vector type="String">
An event property of an XML tag lets you specify the event listener for an events. This property corresponds to setting the event
listener in actionscript using the addEventListener() method. 
Ex. using xml, <s:TextArea id="Goal" creationComplete="creationCompleteHandler();"/> 
Ex using actionscript, Goal.addEventListener("creationComplete", creationCompleteHandler);
some MXML tags, such as <fx:Script> tag, have a property that takes a URL. MXML supports absolute paths 
ex "http://localhost/mystyles.css">. It also support path relatives to locations, and the use of ContextRoot, 
ex <mx:HTTPService url="@ContextRoot()/dire/myfil.xml"/>
MXML also supports regEx. example <myNameSpace:MyComponent regExpression="/\Wcat/gi"/>
MXML compiler tags include <fx:Binding>, Component, Declarations, Definitions, DesignLayer, Library, MetaData, Model, Private,
Reparent, Script, Style

-Using ActionScript
You use MXML tags to declare things like containers, controls, effects, formatters, validators, and web services that your 
application requires, and to lay out the user interface. Each of these components provides the standard behavior you would expect.
A declarative language like MXML is not appropriate for things like events and actions. A procedural language like actionscript, 
offers executable methods, storage devices, and code flow control, among other things. In a sense MXML implements the static aspects 
of your application and actionscript implements the dynamic aspects. ActionScript is an object oriented procedural language. 
The Flex compiler transforms the main XXML file and other files into a single actionscript class. As a result, you cannot define 
classes or use statement outside of functions in the MXML files and the included actionscript files.
An XMXL application ( <s:Application> tag ) defines a subclass of the Spark Application class. Similarly an XMXL component like 
<s:Button> defines a subclass of that component. 
To insert actionscript blocks of code, use the <fx:Script> tag, which must be a child of <s:Application>. New classes can not be 
declared or interfaces in <fx:Script> instead they must be placed in separate AS files and need to be imported. All actionscript
in the block is added to the enclosing file's class when Flex compiles the application.
Most actionscript statements must be inside functions in an <fx:Script> blocks, except import, car, include, const, and namespace.
When using <fx:Scripts> blocks, you must wrap the statements in a CDATA construct. 
<fx:Script> <![CDATA [ ..... ] ]> </fx:Script>
Flex does not parse CDATA construct 
To invoke component's public methods the syntax is componentInstance.method([parameters]);
Like in other languages the word 'this' refers to the current instance the class or component. IT refers to the current scope and 
not to the application object scope.  
Including and importing are not the same. Including copies lines of code from one file to the other, kind of like pasting. Importing
adds a reference to a cleass file or package so objects and properties can be accessed. 
You cannot include cannot define classes in included files. 
Flex MXML file is a class itself. 
You can create reusable components that use action script and reference this components in your applications as xmxl tags. You can also
base your custom components on the set of components by extending from the flex class hierarchy. 
Object introspection is a technique for determining the elements of a class at run time.  such as its properties and methods. You can
use a for.. in loop  to iterate over objects and output their properties and their values.  You can also use the introspection API ny 
the use of describeType() method and parse the results using tge E4X API. The method does not return any private member  
 
-Events
The flex Event model is based on the document nobject model DOM level 3.
Events handlers or event listeners are functions or methods that respond to verious events. Components generate and dispatch events and
listen to other events. An object that requires information about anohter object's event rgister a listener with that object. When an 
event occurs, the object dispathces the event to all registered listeners by calling a function that was requested during registration.
All visual objects, including flex controls and containers, are subclasses of the displayObject class. They are in a tree of visible objects
that make up your application. The root class is the Stage. Belaow hat is the systemManager object. Child and containers are leaf nodes 
of the tree. That tree is known as the display list. 


-SDK configuration



chapter 4
-Flex visual components
Flex includes a component based development model to develop an application and user interface. You can use built-in visual
components, extend components to add new properties and methods.
The characteristics of visual components include;
Size -
Events - Applications or user actions that requires a component response.
Styles -
Effects - visible or audible changes to the components, triggered by an application or user action
Skins - controls visual component appearance

-Spark and MX components
Flex defines two sets of components: Spark and MX.
The Spark components are new for Flex 4 and are defined in the spark.* packages
The MX components are older components are are defined in the mx.* packages
The main differences between Spark and MX are how you use CSS Styles with the components and how you skin them. There are
additional differences about how the containers perform layout.
Spark and MX both define same components, we suggest you use spark components. They also define components that are unique.

-Class hierarchy for visual components
Flex visual components are implemented as a class hierarchy in ActionScript. Each visual component in your application is
an instance of an ActionScript class. All visual components are derived from the UIComponent class and its superclasses,
the Flex Sprite through Object classes, and inherit the properties and methods of their superclasses.

ALL COMPONENTS-> UI COMPONENT-> FLEXSPRITE-> SPRITE-> DISPLAYOBJECTCONTAINER-> INTERACTIVEOBJECT-> DISPLAYOBJECT->
EVENTDISPATCHER-> OBJECT

-UIComponent class
This is the base class for all Flex visual components. List of the most commonly used properties of components that extends
the UIComponents class
doubleClickEnabled, enabled, height, id, percentHeight, percentWidth, styleName, tooTip, visible, width, x, y

Every Flex component has an MXML API and an ActionScript API. A component's mxml tag attributes are equivalent to its
ActionScript properties, styles, effects, and events. You can use both MXML and ActionScript when working with components.
