Programmng Paradigm are a way to classify programming languages based on their features. 
Some paradigms are concerned with implications for the execution model of the language while other
paradigms are concerned with the way code is organized such as grouping a code into units along 
with the state that is modified by the code.

Common programming paradigms include:

-Imperative which allows side effects. Imperative programming is a programming paradigm that uses 
statements that change a program's state. Imperative programming focuses on describing how a program operates.
Imperative programming changes state with commands in the source code, the simplest example being assignment. 
Imperative programming does have functions—not in the mathematical sense—but in the sense of subroutines. 
They can have side effects that may change the value of program state. Functions without return values therefore 
make sense. Because of this, they lack referential transparency, i.e., the same language expression can result in 
different values at different times depending on the state of the executing program.

-Functional which disallows side effects. Functional programming is a style of building the structure and elements 
of computer programs—that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state 
and mutable data. It is a declarative programming paradigm, which means programming is done with expressions or 
declarations instead of statements. In functional code, the output value of a function depends only on the arguments
that are passed to the function, so calling a function f twice with the same value for an argument x produces the 
same result f(x) each time; this is in contrast to procedures depending on a local or global state, which may produce 
different results at different times when called with the same arguments but a different program state. Eliminating 
side effects, i.e., changes in state that do not depend on the function inputs, can make it much easier to understand 
and predict the behavior of a program, which is one of the key motivations for the development of functional programming.


-Declarative which does not state the order in which operations execute. Declarative programming is a style of building 
the structure and elements of computer programs—that expresses the logic of a computation without describing its control
flow. Many languages that apply this style attempt to minimize or eliminate side effects by describing what the program 
must accomplish in terms of the problem domain, rather than describe how to accomplish it as a sequence of the programming 
language primitives (the how being left up to the language's implementation). This is in contrast with imperative programming, 
which implements algorithms in explicit steps. Declarative programming often considers programs as theories of a formal logic, 
and computations as deductions in that logic space. Declarative programming may greatly simplify writing parallel programs.
Common declarative languages include those of database query languages (e.g., SQL, XQuery), regular expressions, logic 
programming, functional programming, and configuration management systems.

-Object-oriented which groups code together with the state the code modifies. OOP is a programming paradigm based on the 
concept of "objects", which may contain data, in the form of fields, often known as attributes; and code, in the form of 
procedures, often known as methods. A feature of objects is that an object's procedures can access and often modify the 
data fields of the object with which they are associated (objects have a notion of "this" or "self"). In OOP, computer 
programs are designed by making them out of objects that interact with one another. There is significant diversity of OOP 
languages, but the most popular ones are class-based, meaning that objects are instances of classes, which typically also 
determine their type. Many of the most widely used programming languages (such as C++, Object Pascal, Java, Python etc.) 
are multi-paradigm programming languages that support object-oriented programming to a greater or lesser degree, 
typically in combination with imperative, procedural programming. Significant object-oriented languages include Java, 
C++, C#, Python, PHP, Ruby, Perl, Object Pascal, Objective-C, Dart, Swift, Scala, Common Lisp, and Smalltalk.

-Procedural which groups code into functions. Derived from structured programming, based upon the concept of the procedure
call. Procedures, also known as routines, subroutines, or functions (not to be confused with mathematical functions, but 
similar to those used in functional programming), simply contain a series of computational steps to be carried out. Any given
procedure might be called at any point during a program's execution, including by other procedures or itself. The first major
procedural programming languages first appeared circa 1960, including Fortran, ALGOL, COBOL and BASIC. Pascal and C were 
published closer to the 1970s, while Ada was released in 1980. Go is an example of a more modern procedural language, 
first published in 2009. Computer processors provide hardware support for procedural programming through a stack register 
and instructions for calling procedures and returning from them. Hardware support for other types of programming is possible, 
but no attempt was commercially successful (for example Lisp machines or Java processors.

-Logic which has a particular style of execution model coupled to a particular style of syntax and grammar. Logic programming 
is a type of programming paradigm which is largely based on formal logic. Any program written in a logic programming language 
is a set of sentences in logical form, expressing facts and rules about some problem domain. Major logic programming language
families include Prolog, Answer set programming (ASP) and Datalog. In all of these languages, rules are written in the form of
clauses.

-Symbolic programming which has a particular style of syntax and grammar. Symbolic programming is a programming paradigm in which
the program can manipulate its own formulas and program components as if they were plain data. Through symbolic programming, 
complex processes can be developed that build other more intricate processes by combining smaller units of logic or functionality. 
Thus, such programs can effectively modify themselves and appear to "learn", which makes them better suited for applications 
such as artificial intelligence, expert systems, natural language processing, and computer games. Languages that support symbolic
programming include Wolfram Language,LISP and Prolog.



Functional languages
