TE cert

TE INTERFACE AND AGENTS
URL access 443 - https://console or ip
interface area used to refresh interface - interface toolbar
context-sensitive - true
user preference to retrieve objects from db in batches - display exact table count
services port - 9898

TE NODES
AD can be monitored out-box - all 
node property editor, which displays nodes male, model, version - general
nerwork devices install agent - flase
node type not manually created - file system
admins can only create nodes of pre-configures types - false

TE ASSET VIEW
best practices dictates tasks should be scope to user-created node groups - false
asset view provides filter options for which of these - OS
SNG which does not require admin conf - System tag sets
tagging profiles allow yser to filter on which option - hostname
which error type has to be cleared manually - uncategorized

TE OBJECTS
edit a linked object, is it updated on all locations - True
rule groups contain - rules and other rules groups
SNG - cannot be moved
deleting any parentless object  - moved to the unlinked group
which te object reprsents a response to a change - action

TE RULES
only way to create a baseline is to runa baseline rule task - false
where to download TW rules - twcc
format of TE rules/poliicies - XML
download twcc rules, can you import them into any group - false
baseline is a record of a monitores object un which state - known and trusted

TE SEARCH AND LOGS
user preference impacts how to search results are fetched and displayed - display exact table count
wher are search fields for a node type when selected from the type dropdown displayed in the Node search criteta - search criteria displayed below the general criteris
options for managing rule searched are the same as the options for managing node searches, except URL options - true
log messages are exported in format - xml
default settting for max number of search result options - 10000

TE CHANGES
action that can be ised to notify TE users and other about a discovered change - email
tree option in the node mgr only displays nodes in the tree that have cahnges - changed node view 
cleick version type link will open the difference viewer to complate the change against baseline - true
act of creating a baseline that is exact copy of a specified element version - promotion
promotion options available - promote versions, match, reference

ADMIN REPORTING 
report criteria is the same regardless of report type - false
access controls cannot be assigned to report groups - true
must select at least one node when configuring any report criteria - false
by default, all report criteris even unselected criteria will be displayed in a report - true
dashboards may contain - reports graphs/charts

ADMIN CONFIG
session timeout is a value in - minutes
forward TE logs setting allows - syslog
2 types of GVs - text  and passwords
items/settings are not exported via export settings in setting mgr - lesence, home pages, node variables and asset tags
which are default severity ranges in TE - low, medium, high.

ADMIN PERMISSIONS
Default admin role can be edited - false
collection of permissions - roles
required when creating a user - name, passwd, role
default roles allow user to do admin tasks - user admin and admin
custom roles can be assigned to users and groups in access cotnrols - true

ADMIN CUSTOM NODES
creating a custom node, under which folder can the custom node be found? - network device
creating a custom node, what mst be created first - custom node type
version information cannot be gatehred on custom node - false
where can the custom node type be created? - Settings mgr
what syntax do the selection and filter criteria for a COVR rule accept - Java 2 regex

SECURITY THREAT INTEL
which of the following is defined by gartner as evidence based knowledge - Threat intelligence
common problem for enterprises on security threats - information overload
primary challenges IT - info overload, lack of business context, motives and motivations of adversaries
indicate time it takes to put measures in place to avoid future attacks - prevention gap
models was created to illustrate difference phases of cyberthreat lifecycle - Cyberthreat gap

SECURITY RULES
Whcih are collections of attributes to be monitored by TE - criteria sets
possible to set severity override values on attribute basis - true
option to collect version content to be used by diff viewer - archive element content 
which rule type will only display info after user had logged into the computer once - Rsop rule
unlimited dir recusion - 0

SECURITY SEVERITY
which of the following is numeric value which is used in rule to indicate changes - severity range 
where severity cahnges can be edited - settings magr
is not possible to override a severity value based on user-soecified criteria - false
action typpe may be used to override a severity - severity override action 
which is a default severity ranges - low meduum high

SECURITY CHANGE MANAGEMENT
user-defined properties which may be assigned to nodes, elements, and version - custom properties
all custom properties must have default value - true
node custom properties may be changed on the security tab on the node property editor - false
allow to edit a custom property via actions - set custom value action 
used to apply or unapply one or more tags to an asset when node has changes - tag action

SECURITY REALTIME 
which tab of the node property editor is auditing enabled - events 
which node types has auditing only provided by the integration of external auth and log version - network devices nodes
te event generator default port - 1169
audit event information can be found on the log tab of the node property mager - false
where must real time monitoring be enabled in order for it to be used? - node and rule

SECURITY POLICIES
where can you download preconfigured securit dashboards files? TWCC
standard to which a monitored system on a network must conform - Policy
which tab can the policy results be viewed? - compliance
no reports designed for reporting on policies and policy resutsl in TE - false

COMPLIANCE
term to mean conforming to a rule like specification, policym standard ot law - compliance
whcih aims to protect patient health information - hippa
not a five critical steps of a security risk and compliance lifecycle - promote and document
which is implemented to protect credit card data - PCI DSS
which ourlines cyber security standrds intended to protect bulk power for us/canada - NERC CIP

COMPLIANCE CUSTOM POLICIES
which is not a policy rest type - functional test
which checks for compliance based on atttribute values specified by conditions - attributes test
which checks for compliance based on content specified by conditions - content tests
which checks for compliance based on values in DALC or SACL - windows ACL tests
downoad TE policy tests - TWCC

COMPLIANCE TUNNING
NOT one of the changes types when a change is discovered - usefull
NOT an option when rule tunning - add remove saved seach 
NOT a step in rule tunning - baseline
NOT option for policy test tunning - edit criteria set
what is the process of eliminating irrelevant change frequently called? - rule tunning 

COMPLIANCE REPORTING 
report to provide test definition that includes details lke desc, type, severity and weight - detail test inventory 
report to calculate number of passing and fail policy tests for a time interval - compliance history
report to show overall compliance pass/fail status for each node? - scoring
report to display pass/fail tests and errors detected since last result - test result by node
report to show trend of historucak scores on policy compliance - scoring hostory 

COMPLIANCE TOOLS
home page for compliance provide by TW - integrity dashboard 
report is not included in the integrity dashboard - changes by audit 
not of the files included with the integrity dashboard - 2_homepage xml
ordere should integrity dashboard fules be imported - quicklink, reports, dashboards 
where integrity dashboard be downloaded - twcc



Results for TE Foundation and Advanced Final Quiz
CONGRATULATIONS, jordonez
YOU PASSED!
Your Score: 75 %
 
Your Score
  
Passing Score
  
 
Results Summary
Course
TE Foundation and Administration Track - 5 days
Quiz
TE Foundation and Advanced Final Quiz
Number Correct
45 of 60
 
Results Details
 
QUESTION ID 1278 : TEF Final Quiz::TEF (wrong) 
Which interface area controls the display of common tree display filters?


A. Tabs
B. Tree Pane
C. Interface Toolbar
D. Tree Options Pane


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: D 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: B 



QUESTION ID 1308 : TEF Final Quiz::TEF (wrong) 
Which settings controls how many results will be returned when using TE's search function?


A. None
B. Table size
C. Maximum search results
D. Display exact table count


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: C 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: D 



QUESTION ID 1340 : TEF Final Quiz::Admin (wrong) 
How many versions may be compared in the Difference Viewer?


A. 1
B. 2
C. 3
D. 4


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: B 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: A 



QUESTION ID 1348 : TEF Final Quiz::Admin (wrong) 
Which statement about the Recalculate database index statistics function is true?


A. It is only necessary about once a year
B. It will take more time on larger databases
C. It will improve TE performance by rebuilding the database
D. It is only recommended when Tripwire Support directs its use


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: B 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: C 



QUESTION ID 1883 : TEF Final Quiz::Compliance (wrong) 
Which steps are required when creating policy?


A. Determine which node types will be tested
B. Create a policy specific to the OS type to be tested
C. Create a rule group to contain applicable policy tests
D. Create policy tests to verify compliance with the standard


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: A B D 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: A B C D 

Tripwire Enterprise Foundation Compliance Track Student Manual
Module 3


QUESTION ID 1901 : TEF Final Quiz::Compliance (wrong) 
Which manager must the Integrity Dashboard 2_Dashboards.xml file be imported into?


A. File
B. Rules
C. Reports
D. Settings


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: D 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: C 

Tripwire Enterprise Foundation Compliance Track Student Manual
Module 6


QUESTION ID 1329 : TEF Final Quiz::Admin (wrong) 
Which statements are true about access controls?


A. Access controls override all user roles
B. Groups cannot be assigned access controls
C. Access controls override all user roles except administrator
D. Accessors can only be assigned roles in access controls, not individual permissions


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: C D 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: B 



QUESTION ID 1890 : TEF Final Quiz::Compliance (wrong) 
Which options are valid ways to adjust rules when tuning them?


A. Adjust filters
B. Adjust specifiers
C. Adjust criteria sets
D. Adjust include options


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: A B C D 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: C 

Tripwire Enterprise Foundation Compliance Track Student Manual
Module 4


QUESTION ID 1338 : TEF Final Quiz::Admin (wrong) 
Contextual Differences only apply to which type of e-mail action?


A. All
B. None
C. Detailed
D. Summary


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: C 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: A 



QUESTION ID 1314 : TEF Final Quiz::TEF (wrong) 
Report tasks can be used to schedule groups of reports.


( True/False ) 

>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: B 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: A 



QUESTION ID 1897 : TEF Final Quiz::Compliance (wrong) 
You want to send a report alert when a node fails a policy test. You configure a Policy Test Result Conditional Action that runs a Test Result Summary report. Where should you assign the action?


A. As the True Action
B. As the False Action
C. As the Policy Fail Action
D. As the Policy True Action


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: B 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: C 

Tripwire Enterprise Foundation Compliance Track Student Manual
Module 5


QUESTION ID 1467 : TEF Final Quiz::Security (wrong) 
Select the order of import for the following Security Dashboard files:


1 -> ???
2 -> ???
3 -> ???
4 -> ???


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: 1_Rules.xml,2_QuickLinks.xml,2_Reports.xml,3_Dashboard.xml, 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: 2_QuickLinks.xml,2_Reports.xml,3_Dashboard.xml,1_Rules.xml, 

TEF_Security_v2.pdf Module 6


QUESTION ID 1334 : TEF Final Quiz::Admin (wrong) 
Which COVR rule feature creates an initial monitoring comparison point during rule creation (as opposed to collection the first time a task is run)?


A. Search-and-Replace
B. Asserting a Baseline
C. Command Execution
D. Selecting Command Output


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: B 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: A 



QUESTION ID 1275 : TEF Final Quiz::TEF (wrong) 
Choose the browsers TE supports.


A. IE
B. Opera
C. Firefox
D. Chrome


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: A C 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: A B C D 



QUESTION ID 1887 : TEF Final Quiz::Compliance (wrong) 
Rule tuning is the process of fine-tuning rules to collect only relevant changes. Which step will prevent irrelevant (unwanted) changes from being detected in the future?


A. Fix the rule
B. Reverse change
C. Evaluate change
D. Promote change


>> CORRECT ANSWER IS: A 
>> YOUR ANSWER IS: C 

Tripwire Enterprise Foundation Compliance Track Student Manual
Module 4


