-----------------------------POSIX
Portable Operating System Interface is a family if standards specified by the IEEE for maintaining compatibility 
between OS's. POSIX defines the application programming interface (API), along with command line shell and 
utility interfaces. There are versions 
-POSIX.1 Core Services : Process Creation and Control, Signals, Floating Point Exceptions, Segmentation /
  Memory Violations, Illegal Instructions, Bus Errors, Timers, File and Directory Operations, Pipes, 
  C Library (Standard C), I/O Port Interface and Control, Process Triggers, 
-POSIX.1b Real-time extensions : Priority Scheduling, Real-Time Signals, Clocks and Timers, Semaphores, 
 Message Passing, Shared Memory, Asynch and Synch I/O, Memory Locking Interface
-POSIX.1c Therads extensions : Thread Creation / Control / Cleanup, Thread Scheduling, Thread Synchronization,
 Signal Handling
-POSIX.2 Shell and Utilities : Command Interpreter, Utility Programs
-POSIX.1-2001
-POSIX.1-2008

----------------------------File descriptors
A file descriptor or FD, is an absract indicator for accessing a file. This term is used in POSIX operating 
systems. In POSIX a FD is a integer. There are 3 standard POSIX FD's, corresponding to the 3 standard streams,
0 for Standard input (stdin), 1 for Standard output (stdout), and 2 for Standard Error (stderr)
Generally, a FD is an index for an entry in a kernel-resident array data structure containing the details of 
open files. In POSIX this data structure is called a file descriptor table, and each process has its own file 
descriptor table. The process passes the file descriptos to the kernel through a system call.
On linux the set of FD's open in a process can be accessed under /proc/PID/fd.
This FD's can refer to any unix file like type named in a file system, regular files, directories, blocks, and 
character devices (called special files),  domain sockets, and named pipes, anonymous pipes, and network sockets.

Operations of FD's 
Some of this functions are declared in the header <fcntl.h>
-Creating FD's : open(), open64(), creat(), creat64(), socket(), accept(), socketpair(), epoll_create() (Linux only),
pipe(), signalfd() (Linux only), eventfd() (Linux only), opendir()
-Deriving FD's : dirfd(), fileno()
-Operations on a single FD : read(), write(), readv(), writev(), pread(), pwrite(), pread64(), pwrite64()
 (linux only, recv(), send(), recvmsg(), sendmsg() (including allowing sending FDs), sendfile(), lseek(), 
 lseek64(), fstat(), fstat64(), fchmod(), fchown(), fdopen(), gzdopen(), ftruncate(), fsync(), fdatasync(),
 fstatvfs()
-Operations on multiple FDs :  select(), pselect(), poll(), epoll(), kqueue()
-Operations on the file descriptor table : The fcntl() function is used to perform various operations on a 
 file descriptor, depending on the command argument passed to it. There are commands to get and set attributes
 associated with a file descriptor, including F_GETFD, F_SETFD, F_GETFL and F_SETFL.  close(), closefrom() 
 (BSD and Solaris only; deletes all file descriptors greater than or equal to specified number), dup()
 (duplicates an existing file descriptor guaranteeing to be the lowest number available file descriptor), dup2()
 (the new file descriptor will have the value passed as an argument), fcntl(F_DUPFD)
-Operations that modify process table :  fchdir() (sets the process's current working directory based on a 
 directory file descriptor), mmap() (maps ranges of a file into the process's address space)
-File locking : flock(), fcntl (F_GETLK, F_SETLK and F_SETLKW), lockf()
-Sockets : connect(), bind(), listen(), accept() (creates a new file descriptor for an incoming connection),
 getsockname(), getpeername(), getsockopt(), setsockopt(), shutdown() (shuts down one or both halves of a 
 full duplex connection)
-Misc : ioctl() (a large collection of miscellaneous operations on a single file descriptor, often associated
 with a device)


----------------------------Celery
Asunchronous task queue/job queue based on distributed message passing. It is focused on real-time operation, but 
supports scheduling as well. The execution units, called tasks, are executed cincurrently on a single or more 
worker servers using multiprocessingm eventlet, ot gevent. Tasks can execute asynchronously.
 

----------------------------Stack
It is a particular kind of abstract data type or collection in which the principal operation on the collection are
the addition (push)  and removal (pop) of an entity, using LIFO data structure. LIFO is conidered a linear data
structure or sequential collection. If a stack is full and does not contain enough space to accept an entity to
be pushed, the stack is considered to be in an overflow state. A stack is a restricted data structure because 
only a small number of operations are performed on it.


----------------------------Gargage collector
Garbage collection is a form of automatic memory management. The gc attempts to reclain garbage, or memory occupied
by objects that are no longer in use by the program. GC basic principles of garbage collection are; find data
objects in a program that cannot be accessed in the future and reclain the resources used by those objects. GC is
often protrayed as the opposite of manual memory management which requires the programmer to specify which objects
to deallocate and return to the memory system. Many systems use a combination of approaches, including other 
techniques such as stack allocation and region inference.

Resources other than memory, such as network sockets, database handles, user interaction windows and file/device
descriptors are not typically handled by GC. 

Many computer languages require GC, either as part of the language specification or for practical implementation.
These are called GC languages. Other languages were designed for use with manual memory, but have GC implementation
available (ex C, C++). Other languages allow both GC and manual memory management to co-exist in the same 
application by using separate heaps for collected and manually managed objects. 

Advantages. 1) Frees the programmer from manually dealing with memory deallocation. 2) Avoids dangling pointer
bugs - it occurs when a piece of memory is freed while there are pointers to it, and one of those pointers is 
derefencered. By then memory could have been re-assigned to another use, causing unpredictable results. 3) Double
free bugs - which occurs when the program tries to free a region of memory that has already been freed, and 
perhaps already been allocated again. 4) Certain kids of memory leaks. This happens when a program fails to free
memory occupied by objects that have become unreachable. 5) efficient implementation of persistent data structures.

Disadvantages. 1) consume computing resources and source code overehead and perhaps decreased performance. 2) real
time environments in transaction processing can result in stall scattered throughtout a session. 

Strong and weak references: Gc can reclaim only objects that have no reference pointing to them either directly
or indirectly from the root set. Some programs require weak references which should be usable for as long as the
object exists but should not prolong its lifetime. Ordinary references are sometimes called strong references. An
object is eligible for garbage collection if there are not strong references to it, even though there still might
be some weak references. 
Aweak reference is not just any pointer to the object that the GC does not care about. The term is usually reserved
for a properly managed category of special reference objects which are safe to use even after the object dissapears
because they lapse to a safe value. 

----------------------------Unix sockets
A unix socket is a two way communication pipe, which can beused to communicate in a wide variety of domains, including
communication between precesses. All data communication will take place through the sockets interface, instead of the 
file interface. Although unix sockets are a special file in the file system (just like FIFO's), it does not use open(),
and read(), it will be using socket(), bind(), recv(), etc.
When programing with unix sockets, you will usually create server and client programs. The server will sit listenning for
incomming connections from client and handle them. 
The bind() function associates a socket (a file descriptor) with a certain filea 

A server program normally needs the following steps
-a call to a socket() to create a stream socket (SOCK_STREAM). FYI, Datagram sockets are also supported in the unix domain.
-a call to bind() to bind the socket desciptor from the call we made to socket() with an address in the unix domain. The
address is a special file on the disk. This associates the socket's descriptor with the unix socket address. 
-a call to listen() to instruct the socket to listen for incomming connections from client programs.
-a call accept() to accept a connection from a client. This function return another socket descriptor. The old descriptor 
is still listenning for new connections, but this new one is connected to the client. Now that the socket descriptor is 
connected to the client, it is ready to send(0 and recv()
-close the connection when done using shutdown()

Unix domain stream and datagram sockets are internet sockets type. Stream sockets use TCP while 
datagram sockets use UDP. Stream sockets allow for reading arbitrary number of bytes, but still
preserves byte sequence. A sender might write 4000 bytes of data to the socket, and the receiver may
consume the data byte by byte. A sender can write small messages to the socket that the receiver can 
consume in a single read. Stream sockets does not preserver message boundaries. 
Datagram sockets, do preserver message boundaries- one write by the sender always correspondes to one
read by the receiver. 

If your application protocol has small messages with known upper bound on message sizes, you are better
off with datagram sockets. If your protocol calls for arbitrary long message payloads, or is just an 
unstructured stream (like raw audio) then use stream sockets and do the required buffering.

----------------------------Kernel Interprocess Communication Mechanishms
Processes communicate with each other and with the kernel to coordinate their activities.
Signals - They are used to signal asynchronous events to one or more processes. There are a set of 
defined signals that the kernel can generate or that can be generated by other processes.
 1) SIGHUP	 2) SIGINT	 3) SIGQUIT	 4) SIGILL
 5) SIGTRAP	 6) SIGIOT	 7) SIGBUS	 8) SIGFPE
 9) SIGKILL	10) SIGUSR1	11) SIGSEGV	12) SIGUSR2
13) SIGPIPE	14) SIGALRM	15) SIGTERM	17) SIGCHLD
18) SIGCONT	19) SIGSTOP	20) SIGTSTP	21) SIGTTIN
22) SIGTTOU	23) SIGURG	24) SIGXCPU	25) SIGXFSZ
26) SIGVTALRM	27) SIGPROF	28) SIGWINCH	29) SIGIO
30) SIGPWR	
Processes can choose to ignore most of the signals that are generated, with two exceptions. sigstop or
sigkill. They can also choose to handle signals in various ways. 
There are no mechanism for handling multiple signals of the same kind. There is no way that a process
can tell if it received any count of signals. The number of supported signals is limited to the word
size of the processor. Normal processes can only send signals to processes with the same uid and gid 
or to processes in the same process group. 
Pipes - Common linuz shells all allow redirections. Pipes are unidirectional byte streams which 
connect the standard output from one process into the standard input of another process. Neither 
process is aware of this redirection and behaves normally. It is the shell that sets up these temporary
pipes between the process. 
Linux also supports named pipes, also known as FIFO's because pipes operate on a FIFO principle. 
Unlike pipes, FIFO's are not temporary objects, they are entities in the file system and can be created
using the mkfifo command. Processes are free to use a FIFO so ling as they have appropriate access 
righrs. 
sockets - A unix domain socket or Inter-process communication socket is a data communications 
endpoint for exchanging data between processes on the same host operatinf system. Unix sockets can be 
created as connection-mode or as connectionless. The unix domain socket facility is a standard 
component of POSIX operating systems. Unix domain sockets use the file system as the address name
space. They are referenced by processes as inodes in the file system. 
A raw socket is an internet socket that allows direct sending and receiving of internet protocol
pacjets, wothout any protocol-specific transport layer formatting. 
A datagram socket is a type of connectionless network socket, which is the sendging or receiving point
for packet delivery services. 
A stream socket is a type of internet socket which provides a connection-oriented, sequenced, and 
unique flow of data without record boundaries, with well defined mechanisms for creating and 
destroying connections and for detecting errors. These internet sockets type transmits data on a
reliable basis, in order and with out-of-band capabilities. traditionally stram sockets are implemented
on top of TCP so that applications can run accross any networks using TCP/IP protocols. 
A network socket is an endpoint of an inter-process communication flow accros a computer network. Most
communication between computers is based on the Internet Protocol, so most network sockets are internet
sockets. 
Linux supports three types of interprocess communication machanisms; messages queues, 
semaphores, and shared memory. 
--The System V IPC mechanisms all share common authentication methods. Access rights is set by the 
creator if the object vis system calls. It uses public and private keys for authentication.
--Messages queues allow one of more processes to write messages, which will be read by one of more 
processes. Linux maintains a list of message queues, including a reading and a writers queue. 
--Semaphores. a semaphore is a location in memory whose value can be tested and set by more than one
process. These two operations are uninterruptible or atomic. The results are the addition for test and
set of the current value for set. Semaphores can be used ti implement critical regions of code that 
only one process at a time can execute it. The test is used to allow or deny access to change or set 
the semaphore a new value. There could be a deadlock situation when a process has altered the semaphore
value and then fails and crashes ot it is killed. Linux protects against this by maintaining lists of 
adjustments that are applied and will set back the semaphore to the original state.
--shared memory. It allowds one or more processes to communicate via memory that appears in all of 
their virtual address spaces. The pages of the virtual memory is referenced by page table entries in 
each of the sharing processes' page tables. Once memory is being shared, there are no checks on how the
processes are using it. They must rely on other mechanism. for example in System V, it uses semaphores
to syncrhonize access to shared memory. 
 






----------------------------Setup Share
On 10.64.4.21 the Centos machine with space 
mkdir /home/dist
chmod 777 /home/dist
/sbin/service nfs start
vi /etc/exports and add /home/dist 10.64.4.42(rw)
/usr/sbin/exportfs -a

On 10.64.2.42 the Remote machine 
vi /etc/fstab and add 10.64.4.21:/home/dist /dist nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=14,intr

----------------------------
Microsoft COM 
Component Object Model is a binary-interface standard for software component to enable interprocess communication and dynamic object creation
It is the basis for other MS technologies and frameworks, like OLE, ActiveXm COM+m DCOM, Windows shell, DirectX, and Windows runtime
COM in s language-neutral way of implementing objects that can be used in different environments and acrss machine boundaries. COM allows the
reuse of objects with no knowledge of their internal implementation. Component inplememters provide well defines interfaces that are separated
from the implementation. The different allocation semantics of languages are accomodated by making objects responsible for their own creation
and destruction via reference-counting. The prefered method of implementation within COM is the creation of sub-objects to which method calls 
are delegated. 

COM is an interface technology defined and implemented as standard only on MS windows and Apple core foundation and an PLUG-IN api. For some 
applications COM has been replaced by MS NET framework and support for web servicers via Windows Communication Foundation, WCF. COM is very
similar to other component software interface technologies, such as COBRA and JavaBeans.

Microsoft DCOM
Distributed Component Object Model is an MS technology for communicatin among software components distributed across cmputers. Originally called
Network OLE. DCOM extends COM and provides the communication substrate under MS COM+ application server infrastructure. DCOM uses DCE/RPC 
(distributed Computing Environment/Remote Procedure Calls). MS enhance version known as MSRPC.
In terms of extensions it added to COM, DCOM had to solve 1) Marshalling - serializing and deserializing the arguments and return values of method
calls over the wire. 2) Distributed garbage collection. Ensuring that references help by clients of interfaces are released effectively Ex crash or
network connectivity loss 3) Aggregating thousand of references to objects help by clients of cinterfcaces at a single host, into a single "ping"
function in order to minimise bandwidth utilization. 
One of the keys to solving these issues whas the use of DCE/RPC as the underlying RPC mechanism behind DCOM. DCE/RPC has strictly defined rules
regarding masrshalling and free memory responsibility.
DCOM was a major competitor to COBRA, which both believed it will be the main model for code and service-reuse over the internet. It did not work
our that way due to firewalls and insecure machies. Normal https requests in combination with web browers won out and over both of them. MS latest
attemp for this is the NCACN_http (network computing architecure connection based over http), which supports on MS exchange 2003 connection over http.
DCOM is suported natively on most Windows OS's 





Microsoft SMB

Microsoft NetBios

Microsoft WMI

Microsoft DWR
-----------------------mount and export
On machine that will host the directory 10.64.4.21 CentOS
make a directory under /home, mkdir /home/dist
vi /etc/exports and add the home directory and the remote system, /home/dist 10.2.2.68(rw)
start nfs system, /sbin/service nfs start
export the directory, /usr/sbin/exportfs -a 

On machine that will need to mount the remote directory
vi /etc/fstab and add, 10.64.4.21:/home/dist /data/jordonez/GITRepo/ironwood/build-sys/ironwood-dev/dist nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=14,int
mkdir /data/jordonez/GITRepo/ironwood/build-sys/ironwood-dev/dist
mount /data/jordonez/GITRepo/ironwood/build-sys/ironwood-dev/dist

-------------------mount profiler image
Go to 10.2.2.60 
copy the rpmfile
rpm -i upgrade-dp-7.2.3-20140410200308.x86_64.rpm 
rpm -qlp upgrade-dp-7.2.3-20140410200308.x86_64.rpm 
cd /data/upgrade/
bunzip2 upgrade-dp-7.2.3-20140410200308.img.bz2 
mount -t ext4 -o loop /data/upgrade/upgrade-dp-7.2.3-20140410200308.img /media

---------------------SSL and TSL
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and its predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) are cryptographic 
protocols designed to provide communication security over the internet. They use X.509 certificates
and hence asymmetric cryptography to authenticate the counterpart with whom they are communicating and
to exchange symetric key. The session key is then used to encrypt data between the two. 

Note. Asymetric cryptography also known as Public-key cryptography is a class of cryptographic algoryths
which require two separate keys, a private and a public. The public key is used to encrypt plaintext or
to verify a digital signature, whereas the private key is used to decrypt ciphertext or to create a 
digital signature. The term asymetric stems from the use of different keys to perform these opposite 
functions, each the inverse of the other. Symmetric cruptography relies on the same key to perform both.
Public key algoryth, unlike symmetric key algorithms do not require a secure intial exchange of one or 
more secret keys between the parties.

Note. Message authentication involves processing a message with a private key to produce a digital 
signature.  
 


An SSL certificate are small data files that difitally bind a cryptographic key to an organization's
details. When installed on a web server, it activates the padlock and the https protocol over port 
443 and allows secure connrctions from a web server to a browser. Typically SSL is used to secure
credit card transactions, data transfer and loggins, and more recently is becoming the norm when 
securing browsing of social media sites. 
SSL ceftificates bind together 1) domain name, server name or hostname 2) an organization identity,
which is company name and location.

An organization needs to install the SSL cerftificate onto his web server to initiate secure sessions
with breowsers. Depending on the type of SSL certificate applied for, the organization will need to go
through different levels of vetting. 

Extended validation or EV SSL turns bar from white to green. It will also display the company name on
the url. Standard SSL vetificates display https and a padlock.

To view the detauls of an SSL certificate, go to a secure dite, click on the padlock and select, view
certificate. Click on the certificate path to see which trusted root certificate has been used to issue
the SSL certificate. 

SSL certificates need to be issued from a trusted CA (certificate Authority) root's certificate, and 
prefferably a 2048 bit. The root certificate must be present in the end user's machine in order for the
certificate to be trusted. If it is not trusted, the browser will present untrusted error messages to
the end user.

A root certificate is amrked for a number of intended purposes, making it able to perform all public 
key infrastructure PKI related activities, like; ensure identity of the remote/local computers, ensures
software came from a publisher, protect software from alteration after publication, protects emails,
allows data to be signed with current time, allows data on disk to be encrypted, allows secure 
communication, permits all key usage policies, OCSP signing. 

The structure of the X.509 v3 digital certificate is expressed in a formal language, called Abstract
Syntax Notation One. 

cat /usr/local/hive/etc/software.crt
Certificate:
    Data:
        Version: 3 (0x2)
        Serial Number: 21 (0x15)
        Signature Algorithm: md5WithRSAEncryption
        Issuer: C=US, ST=California, L=San Francisco, O=nCircle Network Security, OU=Internet Technology and Security, CN=ca.ncircle.com/Email=its@ncircle.com
        Validity
            Not Before: Jan 12 00:02:30 2002 GMT
            Not After : Jan  2 00:02:30 2004 GMT
        Subject: C=US, ST=California, L=San Francisco, O=nCircle Network Security, OU=Engineering, CN=Production Software Signing/Email=eng@ncircle.com
        Subject Public Key Info:
            Public Key Algorithm: rsaEncryption
            RSA Public Key: (1024 bit)
                Modulus (1024 bit):
                    00:bf:98:2a:9e:5b:34:8d:70:99:24:71:71:8e:77:
                    90:11:48:e9:4f:a2:b1:ef:21:06:36:42:78:c5:0e:
                    23:3d:f5:73:16:58:49:36:c5:e6:11:e6:88:97:ba:
                    c5:92:3d:67:7c:a0:67:a2:33:5a:e3:e5:51:55:be:
                    88:59:ac:20:ae:41:cc:fd:e9:00:86:92:49:2f:d1:
                    01:90:42:7f:37:b5:6e:74:dc:bf:39:2e:23:86:74:
                    94:ba:17:e2:ce:51:3b:1c:6a:de:42:92:97:94:61:
                    ef:9a:39:b3:40:52:10:fb:70:3f:6e:83:db:05:07:
                    4b:3b:a5:70:0a:1a:a2:78:ad
                Exponent: 65537 (0x10001)
        X509v3 extensions:
            X509v3 Basic Constraints: 
                CA:TRUE
            X509v3 Key Usage: 
                Certificate Sign, CRL Sign
            Netscape Comment: 
                Root CA Signing Key CAs
            Netscape Base Url: 
                https://ca.ncircle.com/
            Netscape CA Revocation Url: 
                cgi-bin/get-cert.py/Root/crl
            Netscape Revocation Url: 
                cgi-bin/ns-check-rev.py/Root?
            Netscape Renewal Url: 
                cgi-bin/ns-renewal.py/Root?
    Signature Algorithm: md5WithRSAEncryption
        56:1a:73:fd:7f:63:10:4a:cd:b3:1a:65:1b:d7:e0:04:00:11:
        9b:73:b9:34:63:13:26:ab:13:6f:e7:ca:f1:24:9a:3c:82:b6:
        f5:70:74:56:37:4c:72:9a:5a:05:11:b5:42:f3:44:10:4c:68:
        af:4f:cb:5a:42:44:63:09:f9:3c:24:59:68:61:f2:7d:98:e8:
        c5:a0:c9:b7:ae:96:54:aa:e8:84:6e:09:8a:56:db:9d:fb:ec:
        43:7b:83:fd:5e:e0:8a:eb:37:ff:f3:81:7b:7b:11:00:5b:c6:
        84:1c:02:25:f0:2c:73:f9:72:8d:e5:08:24:d7:6e:5b:ce:df:
        9f:64
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----

Zorro34# ls -la
total 20
-rw-r--r--  1 root  wheel  4309 Mar 18 22:40 ca.crt
-rw-r--r--  1 root  wheel  1704 Mar 18 22:40 ca.key
-rw-r--r--  1 root  wheel  4250 Mar 18 22:40 server.crt
-rw-r--r--  1 root  wheel  1704 Mar 18 22:40 server.key
Zorro34# pwd
/usr/local/hive/etc/imageserver
Zorro34# file *
ca.crt:     ASCII text
ca.key:     ASCII text
server.crt: ASCII text
server.key: ASCII text

BSDdpDrums# ls -la
total 5922
-rw-r--r--   1 root  wheel     5137 Jun  3 07:04 app.crt
-rw-r--r--   1 root  wheel      509 Jun  3 07:04 app.key
-rw-r--r--   1 root  wheel     4339 Feb 10 04:58 ca.crt
-rwsr-xr-x   1 root  1011     70792 Feb 10 20:09 chgpasswd
-rwxr-xr-x   1 root  1011   2067616 Feb 10 20:09 loader
-rw-r--r--   1 root  wheel      390 Jun  4 07:12 loader.conf
-r--r--r--   2 root  wheel     3802 Feb 10 20:10 software.crt
-r--r--r--   2 root  wheel     3802 Feb 10 20:10 software.crt.prod
-rwxr-xr-x   1 root  1011   1742488 Feb 10 20:09 uiclient

In cryptography X.509 is an ITU0T standard for a public key infrastructure (PKI) and priviledge 
management infrastucture (PMI). X.509 spedifies among other things, standard formats for public key 
certificates, certificate revocation lists, attribute certificates, and a certification path validation
algorith. 

In the X.509 system, a CA or certificate Authority ussues a certificate binding a public key to a 
distinguished name. An organization's trusted root certificates can be distributed to all employees so
that they can use the companu PKI system. Browsers come with predetermined set of root certificates 
pre-installed, so SSL certificates from larger vendors will work instantly. 
X.509 also includes standards for certificate revocation list (CRL) implementations. The IETF approved
way of checking a certificate's validity is the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP).

Common filename extensions for X.509 certificates are; .pem, .cer .crt .der, .p7b .p7c , .p12, .pfx

-----------------gdb
GDB, the GNU Project debugger, allows you to see what is going on `inside' another program while it 
executes, or what another program was doing at the moment it crashed.
GDB can do four main kinds of things (plus other things in support of these) to help you catch bugs in 
the act:
    Start your program, specifying anything that might affect its behavior.
    Make your program stop on specified conditions.
    Examine what has happened, when your program has stopped.
    Change things in your program, so you can experiment with correcting the effects of one bug. 
 
A debug symbol is information that expresses which programming-language constructs generated a specific
piece of machine code in a given executable module. Sometimes the symbolic information is compiled 
together with the module's binary file, or distributed in a separate file, or simply discarded during the
compilation and/or linking. This information enables a person using a symbolic debugger to gain 
additional information about the binary, such as the names of variables and routines from the original 
source code. This information can be extremely helpful while trying to investigate and fix a crashing 
application or any other fault.

When debug symbols are embedded in the binary itself, the file can then grow significantly larger 
(sometimes by several times the original file size). To avoid this extra size, modern compilers and early
mainframe debugging systems output the symbolic information into a separate file; for Microsoft compilers,
this file is called a PDB file. Some companies ship the PDB on their CD/DVD to enable troubleshooting and
other companies (like Microsoft, and the Mozilla Corporation) have special online servers from which it's
possible to download the debug symbols separately. Microsoft's WinDBG debugger can be configured to 
automatically download debug symbols for Windows DLLs on demand as they are needed. The PDB debug symbols
that Microsoft distributes are only partial (they include only public functions, global variables and 
their data types), whereas the Mozilla Corporation has similar infrastructure but distributes full debug 
information.

How to start gdb
-specifying an executable program:
gdb program
-executable program and a core file specified:
gdb program core
-executable program and a PID
gdb program 1234
-You can optionally have gdb pass any arguments after the executable file to the inferior using --args. 
This option stops option processing.
gdb --args gcc -O2 -c foo.c



Example 
kill -9 3013 ; gdb /rd/bin/profiler
(gdb) run -d

--------------------------------Virtual circuit
In computer networks, a virtual circuit VC is synonymous to a virtual connection and virtual channel, 
is a connection oriented communication service that is delivered by means of packet mode communication.
After a connection or virtual circuits is established between two node or application processes, a
bit stream or byte stream may be delivered between the nodes.
Vircutal circuits communication resembles circuit switching, since both are connection oriented,
meaning that in both cases data is delivered in order, and signalling overhead is required during a 
connection establishment phase. However circuit switching provides constant bit rte and latency. 
Many virtual circuits protocols but not all provide reliable communication service through the use of
data retransmitions because of error detection and automatic repeat request (ARQ)
An alternate network configuration to virtual cicuit is Datagram.

Layer 4 vicrtual circuits; connection oriented transport layer datalink protocols such as TCP may rely
on a connectionsless packet switching network layer protocol such as IP, where different packets maybe
routed over different paths, and thus be delivered out of order. However a virtual circuit is possible
since TCP includes segments numbering and reordering on the reveiver side to accomodate out or order 
delivery

layer 2/3 virtual circuit; data link and network link layer virtual circuit protocols are based on 
connection oriented packet switching, meaning that data is always delivered along the same network
path. Advantages with this over connectionless packet switching are: 1) Bandwidth reservation during 
connection establishment is supported, thius guaranteen Quality Of Service. 2) Less overhead is 
required since packets are not routed individually and complete addressing information is not provided
on the header of each packet. 3) netowrk nodes are faster and have higher capacity since they are 
switches that only perform routing during connection stablishment phase, while connectionless network
nodes are routers that perform routing for each packet individually.

Examples of transport layer protocols that provide virtual circuits; 
TCP, SCTP (stream control transmission protocol,
Example of data link and network layer protocols that provide virtual circuits;
X.25, Frame relay, ATM - Asynchronous Transfer Mode, GPRS - general packet radio service, MPLS - 
multipirotocol lable switching 

---------------------------------------Datagram 
 datagram is a basic transfer unit with a packet-switching network in which the delivery, arrival time,
and order or arrival are not guaranteed by the network. A datagram needs to be self-contained without
reliance on earlier exchanges because there is no fixed duration between the two communicating points.
Datagram service is consider unreliable and connectionless. Datagram service routes datagrams without 
first creating a pretermined path. There is no consideration given to the order of packets been sent or
received.
IP or internet protocol defines standards for several types of datagrams. The internet layer is a 
datagram service provided by IP. IP is entirely a connectionless, best effort, unreliable message
delivery system. TCP is a higher leverl protocoll running on top of IP that can provide the addition
of a connection-oriented service. 

