pgAdmin - Open Source Management tool for PostgreSQL databases. Features full unicode support,
fast, multithreaded qury and data editing tools. 
Includes a GUI, an SQL query tool, a procedural code editor and much more. 

phpPgAdmin - Supports browsing and modification of most types of PostgreSQL database objects,
plus execution of ad-hoc queries. 

TeamPostgreSQL - browser-based, webserver included. AJAX/Javascript-powered web interface
for PostgreSQL administration. Supports SSH for both the web interface and the database
connections.

Adminer - Formerly phpMinAdmin; is a full-featured database management tool written in PHP.

RHDB - Red Hat Database Tool. It ships with redhat database for the benefit of the 
postgreSQL community. 

Gnome-DB - Database administrator/user tool for GNOME, based on libgda/libgnomedb,
which are complete database-independdent access layers for unix systems, with support
for postgreSQL and other DB's.

GUI Database tools
-Datastudio
-DbDesigner fork
DbSchena
dbwrench

--------DDL
Data Definition Language or Data Description Language DDL is a syntax similar to a
computer programming language for defining data structures, especially database schemas

--------DDL
Description Definition Language is part of the MPEG-7 standard. It gives an 
important set of tools for the users to create their own DS Description Schemes
and Ds descriptors. DDL defines the syntax rules to define, combine, extend
and modify description Schemes and Descritors.
DDL is not a modeling language, such as the United Modeling Language (UML), but a
schematic language to represent the audiovisual data results, which must confort to
the descriptors, the description schemesm and the MPEG-7 descriptions.

-------------------
Installing postgres

yum install postgresql-server
yum install postgresql postgresql-contrib
sudo su - postgres

initdb -D /data/databaseHielo
pg_ctl -D /data/databaseHielo -l logfile start
psql
create database hielo;

